= Safe Shell

Safe Shell lets you execute shell commands and get the resulting output, but without the security problems of Ruby's backtick operator.

== Usage

    gem install safe_shell

    require 'safe_shell'
    SafeShell.execute("echo", "Hello, world!")

SafeShell sets the $? operator to the process status, in the same manner as the backtick operator.

    # Send stdout and stderr to files:
    SafeShell.execute("echo", "Hello, world!", :stdout => "output.txt", :stderr => "error.txt")

    # Return true if the command exits with a zero status:
    SafeShell.execute?("echo", "Hello, world!")

== Why?

If you use backticks to process a file supplied by a user, a carefully crafted filename could allow execution of an arbitrary command:

    file = ";blah"
    `echo #{file}`
    sh: blah: command not found
    => "\n"

Safe Shell solves this.

    SafeShell.execute("echo", file)
    => ";blah\n"

== Compatibility

Tested with Ruby 1.8.7, but it should be happy on pretty much any Ruby version. Maybe not so much on Windows.

== Developing
 
* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a
  future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history.
  (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

== Status

In use on at least one big site, so should be pretty solid. There's not much to it, so I'm not expecting there'll be many releases.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 Envato, Ian Leitch, & Pete Yandell. See LICENSE for details.
